All right, guys.
So in this video, we're going to look at a pseudo selector or a pseudo class called Nth Child.
So I'm going to go ahead in our CSS sandbox to and create a new file called Zero to underscore and underscore
child dot HTML.
And I'm going to change this this targeted selectors, I'm just going to do zero one just to stay consistent
here.
All right.
So in the Nth Child file, let's go ahead and generate our head and body tags.
We'll say end child and we want our style tags.
Now, as far as the HTML, what I'm going to do is just have a UL and I want about 20 list items.
So I'm going to say ly, I'm going to use emit here and the content will be item and then an incremental
number and I'm going to say times 20 and then hit enter.
So we'll go ahead and open this up.
We'll save it open with live server.
I'm going to add some base styling for the list item.
So I just want to add some padding.
We'll say 0.25 REM and margin oops, not margin 0.25 REM.
And let's just take away the bullet items with list style.
None.
All right.
Now, we've seen the first child in last child.
So I'm just going to refresh your memory.
If you forget what these do, basically, we can select the first and last element, and it doesn't
have to be a list item.
I'm just using list items.
It could be divs, it could be whatever, any element at all.
But we're going to say Ally and then the pseudo selector syntax is a colon.
So we want to say first child and let's say background, let's just do background red.
I'll just use color names here.
So that selects the first one.
And if we want the last one, copy that and we'll just do Last Child and save.
And now the last one is red.
But what about all of these?
You know what, if we want to choose the fourth one or every every second one, every even one, every
odd one for that we can use Nth Child.
And Nth is basically like a kind of like a placeholder.
So let's get, let's say position three.
So to do that we can say list item and we're going to say Nth Dash Child and we're just going to pass
in three K and then I'm going to say background and let's do a different color.
We'll do purple and save and notice that the third one down is is purple.
So what if we wanted to do every three, not just the third one, but every third one?
We want to do so in that case, let's say every three.
So we could say ninth child and we can say three and plus zero.
This is basically the formula that that we're going to use here and let's say background and we'll do
orange if I save that.
Notice that every third one is orange and it replaced the the this one here position three because it's
further down so it just kind of overrode it.
If I put important here and save, then that's going to overwrite that.
Now this formula that we passed in here is the counter.
So this is the counter and then zero.
This is the offset because we can offset, we can start it wherever we want.
In this case, we're starting in at zero and as a shortcut we can just do three N So if I save that,
we're going to get the same result.
Now let's say that I want to do every three, but I want it to start after the seventh item here.
So let's put a comment in here.
We'll say every three after seven.
So to do that we can put in Nth Child and then pass in three N and we want to do plus seven, which
is our offset.
And then I'll do background yellow and we'll save that and notice that the yellow starts here.
So this seven, this is the offset.
We're basically going to just we're not going to start it until we hit that seventh item and then we're
going to do every three.
Now, a more common thing you're probably going to do is even in odd.
So let's say every odd.
So we could do ly nth child and we could pass in.
Odd.
And let's do background.
I'll do a light gray and save.
And now every odd item here is going to be light grey.
Now, it's probably it probably it's probably pretty obvious that we can do even as well.
So let's do that.
Let's do even and we'll change this to let's do a shade darker or a shade lighter actually and save.
And now every even is the like this this did light grey all right so end child can be pretty handy I
remember before in the child was actually a thing we had to use JavaScript to dynamically select every
other element and it was, it was just a pain in the neck.
Guys, if you're learning HTML and CSS now, you've missed a lot of just giant pains in the -- because
things weren't I mean, you know, these selectors weren't around even like border radius wasn't around
to do things like even placeholders in our forms and our input forms.
We didn't have the placeholder attribute before HTML five.
So we would have to use JavaScript to put to have a value in, but then add a click event.
So when we clicked in, the value went away, which was just a giant pain in the neck.
So you guys are lucky, those of you that are learning this now that you don't have to go through that
stuff and then browser compatibility is a whole new issue.
All right.
So that's that's the basis of end child.
In the next video, we're going to look at the before and after pseudo selector and look at some practical
uses for the for that.